---
title: One Paper Per Day 2024 (4/366)
pubDate: 4 Jan 24
---
## Hate Speech in Political Discourse: A Case Study of UK MPs on Twitter

ACM Conference on Hypertext and Social Media 2021 (HT'21)\
[ACM Digital Library](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3465336.3475113)

Today's piece is quite straightforward -- it's a study of hate speeches toward members of the British Parliament.

The paper scrapes roughly 2.5 million tweets (when it was still Twitter, haha) from 1.25 million threads containing conversations between MP and non-MP users (scraping the whole thread for more contextual data)

Overall, the 2.5 million tweets contained conversations from 533 of the 650 MPs (82%), a large number that reflects the role of social media in political communication today (as the authors noted).

The major part of this paper is the analysis of the data -- the authors initially tried to cluster the topic of speech with Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), but the results were ambiguous. So, they tried grouping the topic of conversation from the hashtags instead. To further group hashtags, two coders (models?) were used and then compared (using Cohen's Kappa -- interesting, going to read more about this). The results were relatively consistent.

After separating the topic, each tweet was put into 18 separate classifiers to analyze whether the tweet was hate speech. The results for each tweet are counted on how many of the classifiers agreed (n), in other words, separated into bins according to number n. The average scores for each bin are then measured. Using the toxicity score of 0.8 recommended by Google Perspective API, the data from the bins with n=9 are classified as harmful.

The characteristics of the tweets are observed after filtering only tweets that contain hate speech. Using additional contexts from the topic of discussion and issue to the MP's personal data and the party that the MP belongs to, several characteristics emerge, for example:

- It was found that MPs who are from Ethnic-Minority Groups or women experience a higher proportion of hate speech than white people or men.
- It was found that the conservative party (which is in government) received the most hate speech.
- Logically, supporters (counting from the proportion of which party's account the user follows the most) of one party are more likely to create hate speech toward another party, except conservatives who make hate speech towards MPs of their own party.

The conclusion of this paper is to demonstrate the importance of managing online hate and support the creation of regulations to attempt to solve this problem.

[Facebook Post (Thai) ↗](https://www.facebook.com/chayapatr/posts/pfbid0Road8f3kqDw36c2vh13831KfzJqXTTtXBM8xJqTR1QeaigkLyAwzH5Sn7duui7Kel)